all right so there is just one thing
that's starting to feel a little bit
weird with this new pixel but I'll get
to that by the end of this video let's
just start with the obvious stuff what's
actually new here so I just got some
Hands-On time with Google's new budget
phone the pixel 8A and I can confirm
they are mostly sticking to the script
here keeping it simple last year's phone
was already really good making a few key
improvements where it counts and keeping
the price the same $500 500 bucks isn't
cheap but it's also not a flagship it's
definitely in this nice little mid-range
territory and I feel like that pixel has
been slowly catching up their Hardware
to the rest of the competition in this
price point so at first glance it is
well pretty unmistakably a pixel with
the camera bar up top but there's a
little change there's a little bit more
rounded edges I really hope I'm not the
only one getting round SpongeBob vibes
from these corners but that's definitely
what I see but that's the main design
change back here and then also around
the back it's still got wireless
charging it still has the same main
camera sensor as the 7A with an ultra
wide next to it but now there's new
colors and this new matte texture so
there's a black and a white that are
called obsidian and Porcelain which look
pretty tame but then there's also a new
green and blue called aloe and Bay and
they are definitely more vibrant the
rails and the camera bar are all
aluminum still it's still IP67 rated and
then there's a slightly larger battery
but I mean it's we're talking very
slight here I think it goes from 4385
milliamp hours to just over 40 400 but
it still has wireless charging too then
on the inside it's been bumped up to the
new tensor G3 chip from last year's
flagships so we know it's decently
capable if a little inefficient but then
it'll also start at 128 gigs of storage
but for the first time they're also
going to offer a 256 gig version of the
aone as well and then around the front
an improved display so it's the same
size still 6.1 in still has the middle
hole punch cut out for the selfie camera
still has an optical fingerprint reader
but it's now an actua display so the
peak brightness is 40% higher than
before and I think it's noticeable this
is one of those things that makes a big
difference to everyday life and
usability just being able to see it
outdoors and it's now a ped that gets up
to 120 HZ instead of the 90 HZ like last
year now before you even type it I know
a lot of people are going to argue
immediately this is not something that
makes much of a difference to most pixel
buyers and you're right in fact many of
them will not notice this Improvement
just because smooth display is actually
off Again by default so it's a 60 HZ
phone out the box and then you have to
know to go into the settings and turn it
on knowing it'll impact battery life and
then even once you do it's not like
locked at 120 HZ it's Dynamic up to 120
HZ so I played around with this phone
for a little bit it did feel very smooth
to me it feels nice at 120 HZ so I'm
personally happy about that change but I
won't dwell on about it for too much
longer so from there you already know
what a pixel is right this is the
mid-range SL budget version of the phone
with great software like this is the one
with the really smart AI features like
call assist and pixel VPN and Magic
Eraser audio and all kinds of other
classic Google features it's the one
with easily the best speech to text
transcription speed and accuracy I've
ever used on a phone it's reliable
enough to just write whatever you want
emails texts notes whole paragraphs as
fast as you want it's also the one
that's promised 7even years of updates
OS updates security updates feature drop
updates and it's the one with really
good cameras mostly basically unchanged
from last year but all the pixel 7A did
was literally get the highest ELO rating
on our recent blind smartphone camera
test with millions of votes up against
other top tier Flagship phones so I'd
say that's a pretty good Baseline so it
seems like a pretty safe bet pretty easy
bet if you're a Google or pixel fan but
I'll just say here are my worries with
this pixel so first of all this is the
first a series device that they're going
to enable Gemini Nano on and Nano is the
one that can go locally on the device
entirely which is great they're probably
going to make a big deal about it at the
event and talk about it more at Google
IO and all this stuff but there's also
now like this weird inconsistency with
different assistants on the pixel phone
it's not even just this phone but now
you've got the Gemini app like showing
off prominently on the home screen on
these pixel 8 a which is the latest
available and most capable voice and
multimodal AI search that they have but
then the Google search page right next
to the home screen if you tap the mic
there that's going to a totally separate
but also very capable Google Voice
search with Google Assistant Google is
literally now developing two different
assistance side by side with overlapping
but not fully congruent capabilities is
just a little weird a little
inconsistent and we saw it coming and we
knew this would happen but I think
they'll eventually have to consolidate
them all into one I think Gemini will do
everything at some point but then hey I
guess the other thing to keep in mind is
the price so again it's this phone's
launch for $500 US mid-range phone
mid-range price everything seems
reasonable here but let me remind you
you can still buy last year's phone of
the Year brand new pixel 8 for 550 bucks
so this 8A right now is not that much
cheaper than the 8 and if you do go with
the eight while it is a couple months
old now sure you're also getting a phone
with thinner bezels and a brighter
higher quality display arguably even
better cameras with bigger sensors a
bigger battery faster charging ip68 and
it's the same tensor G3 like is that not
a way better feeling deal I mean if you
can find one used that's even better
pixel 8 was just such a good phone for
that price that it makes phones both
more and less expensive feel like worse
buys like I talked about how pixel 8 Pro
feels like such a hard sell cuz it's
$250 more but now it also kind of makes
the pixel 8A look a little too high
priced so either way I'm sure pixel 9
and 9 Pro when they come out will shake
things up but uh as of right now pixel
8A is just it's a solid mid-ranger solid
it's got all the stuff you kind of
already know you're getting from a pixel
and if you also plan on picking one of
these up then Channel sponsor dbrand
also has you covered with their hydro
dip skins now I've been using dbrand
skins literally since 2013 so that's
over a decade now uh and the biggest
thing for me is they basically add no
thickness obviously to the device like a
case wood but they can still totally
change the look and feel now Beyond just
the pixel skin and case dbrand also
supports with the hydro dip skin almost
200 devices so there's phones but also
laptops tablets consoles you name it and
there's four colorways of this one so
Gold Rush solar flare toxic waste and
cotton candy I'm thinking Gold Rush is
the best looking one out of the bunch
like I'm into the black white and gold
combo super clean but honestly they all
look pretty unique so if you have a
favorite I'll leave a link down below so
you can grab one for yourself but yeah
that's basically it let me know what you
think of pixel 8A versus pixel 8 in this
weird 6mon release stage thing Google's
doing I'll check the comments either way
thanks for watching catch you guys in
the next one peace
[Music]